# Files for Unit 4

Please complete the following steps to set up some projects dependencies for this Unit.

## 1. Download the Jeopardy database and Python scripts

Please either clone this repository and navigate to the `jeopardy` directory, or
download these files individually to a `jeopardy` directory. We'll use them
throughout Unit 4.

* [jeopardy.dump](./jeopardy/jeopardy.dump)
* [clues.py](./jeopardy/clues.py)
* [game_categories.py](./jeopardy/game_categories.py)
* [category_clues.py](./jeopardy/category_clues.py)

## 2. Install SQLite

### On Windows

* Download the SQLite command line tools from
  http://www.sqlite.org/download.html, using the <code>sqlite-tools</code> link
  in the "Precompiled Binaries For Windows" section. This will download a
  directory containing several executables, including <code>sqlite3.exe</code>.
* Copy <code>sqlite3.exe</code> into your <code>jeopardy</code> folder.

### On OSX

* You already have SQLite installed and don't have to do anything!

### On Linux

* Install the <code>sqlite3</code> package through your package manager.

## 3. Create a SQLite database from the database dump

The <code>jeopardy</code> folder contains a file called
<code>jeopardy.dump</code>. This is a SQL database dump. We need to turn this
database dump into a SQLite database.

Now that you have SQLite installed, create a database from
<code>jeopardy.dump</code> by executing the following command at the terminal:

<pre>sqlite3 jeopardy.db < jeopardy.dump</pre>

This creates a <code>sqlite</code> database called <code>jeopardy.db</code>.

## 4. Test your setup

At a terminal, start <code>sqlite3</code> using the <code>jeopardy.db</code>
database by running:

<pre>sqlite3 jeopardy.db</pre>

That should start a <code>sqlite</code> prompt that looks like this:

<pre>
SQLite version 3.6.12
Enter ".help" for instructions
Enter SQL statements terminated with a ";"
sqlite></pre>

At the <code>sqlite</code> prompt, type <code>.tables</code> and press
enter. That should display a list of the tables in this database:

<pre>sqlite> .tables
category  clue
sqlite></pre>

Quit <code>sqlite</code> by executing:

<pre>sqlite> .quit</pre>

## 5. Practice making SQL queries

### Look at the layout of the Jeopardy database

Start sqlite with:

<pre>sqlite3 jeopardy.db</pre>

Then look at the tables in your database by running the following commands at
the <code>sqlite</code> prompt:

* <tt>.table</tt>, which will list the tables in the database
* <tt>.schema category</tt>, which will show the organization of the
  <tt>category</tt> table, including the fields and the data types they store.

It should look like this:

<pre>sqlite> .schema category
CREATE TABLE "category" (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    game INTEGER NOT NULL,
    boardPosition INTEGER
    );</pre>

This tells us that the <code>category</code> table has 4 fields:
<code>id</code>, <code>name</code>, <code>game</code>, and
<code>boardPosition</code>.

### Read more about SQL

If you don't have prior experience with SQL, please read these short documents
for an introduction:

* [What is SQL?](http://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_intro.asp)
* [What is a database schema?](http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_a_database_schema)

Then, check your understanding:

* What tables are in the database?
* What is a schema?
* What fields are in the <code>category</code> table?
* What fields are in the <code>clue</code> table?

### Query the database with SELECT

Try running the following queries from the <code>sqlite</code> prompt:

* <tt>SELECT * FROM category;</tt>
* <tt>SELECT NAME FROM category;</tt>
* <tt>SELECT * FROM clue;</tt>
* <tt>SELECT text, answer, value FROM clue;</tt>
* <tt>SELECT text, answer, value FROM clue LIMIT 10;</tt>

Explore the <code>category</code> and <code>clue</code> tables with your own
SELECT queries.

Then, check your understanding:

* What does <code>*</code> mean in the above queries?
* What does the <code>LIMIT</code> SQL keyword do?
* Does case matter when making SQL queries?

---

Questions? Please don't hesitate to reach out to the author (me, Jessica!) at:
<code>jesstess@mit.edu</code>.
