# Installing Python on Linux

This page walks through how to install a version of Python on Linux that is compatible with this tutorial.

Any version of Python 3 will work for this tutorial. If you don't have Python installed, we'll install Python version 3.4.1.

## Check your Python installation

<ol>
<li>Start up a Terminal. You can find the Terminal application at <code>Applications/Accessories/Terminal</code>, or it may already be on your menu bar.

<br />
This Terminal is another way of navigating your computer and running programs -- just textually instead of graphically. We are going to be running Python and Python scripts from this Terminal.
</li>
<li>Test your Python installation at the Terminal prompt by typing

<pre>
python
</pre>

and pressing Enter. You should see something like
<pre>
Python 3.4.1 (v3.4.1:d047928ae3f6, May 13 2013, 12:45:22) 
[GCC 4.3.2] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> 
</pre>

You just started Python! The <code>>>></code> indicates that you are at a new type of prompt -- a Python prompt. The Terminal prompt lets you navigate your computer and run programs, and the Python prompt lets you write and run Python code interactively.<br />
</li>
<li>Exit the Python prompt by typing

<pre>
exit()
</pre>

and pressing Enter. This will take you back to the Linux Terminal prompt.</li>
</ol>

<b>If your Python version started with a 3</b>, you are done with this section.

<b>If your Python version started with a 2</b>, you may have a version of Python 3 installed, just not as the default Python. Type

<pre>
python3
</pre>

at a Terminal prompt.

If this starts Python, you have a version of Python 3 installed, just not as the default Python. Please use the command <b>python3</b> instead of <b>python</b> to start Python for the rest of this course.

If you have no version of Python 3 installed, we'll need to install it. Please continue to the instructions in the next section.

## Install Python

Please install Python 3.4 using your package manager, or from source using the source release at https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-341/.

Please use the command <b>python3</b> instead of <b>python</b> to start Python for the rest of this course.

## Success!

You have tested your Python installation.

---

Questions? Please don't hesitate to reach out to the author (me, Jessica!) at:
<code>jesstess@mit.edu</code>.
